reword the introduction in the manual (#9873)
NixOS/nix: doc/manual/src/introduction.md

It is grown an ecosystem of exceptionally powerful tools – including Nixpkgs, , and NixOS, a Linux distribution that can be configured fully declaratively, with unmatched flexibility.

At the heart of this is the [Nix store](./store/index.md).
It keeps immutable file system objects, and tracks dependencies between them.
It can also execute sandboxed processes and efficiently copy bundled dependencies across machines in a way that preverves correctness.

Nix comes with a purely functional programming language to describe and compose these computations, and succinctly refer to their inputs and outputs: the [Nix language](./language/index.html).

# What Nix can do

Nix enforces *complete, exact* dependencies whenever software under its control is run.
This makes possible unique features without compromising on efficiency.

## Multiple software versions side by side

You can have multiple versions or variants of a package installed at the same time.
Different files always end up on different paths in the Nix store, so they don’t interfere with each other.

> This circumvents the “DLL hell”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This circumvents the “Dependency hell”.
```

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_hell

We do not have good windows support yet to circumvent a DLL hell yet.

An important consequence is that upgrading or uninstalling an application cannot break other applications, since these operations never “destructively” update or delete files that are used otherwise.

## Multi-user support

Nix has multi-user support.
This means that non-privileged users can securely install software.
Each user can have a different _profile_, a set of programs in the Nix store that appear in the user’s `$PATH`.
If a user installs a package that another user has already installed previously, the package won’t be built or downloaded a second time.

> At the same time, it is not possible for one user to inject a Trojan horse into a package another user may rely on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the same time, it is not possible for one user to inject malicious code into a package another user may rely on.
```

And since files aren’t overwritten, the old versions are still there after an upgrade.
This means that you can instantly _roll back_ to an old version.

## Garbage collection

Files are’t deleted from the system right away — after all, you might want to do a rollback, or they might be in the profiles of other users.
Instead, unused packages can be deleted safely by running the _garbage collector_.

This deletes all packages that aren’t in use by a currently running program or otherwise.

## Transparent source/binary deployment

Nix expressions generally describe how to build software from source, starting from some initial binary that is taken for granted.
This is a _source deployment model_.

But since outputs are cached, building is only required if the output in question are not already in the Nix store.
Nix can also automatically skip building from source and instead use a _binary cache_, a web server that provides pre-built binaries.
This is a _binary deployment model_.

[Hydra](https://hydra.nixos.org/), the Nix build cluster, has been producing binary artifacts and making them available in the [public cache](http://cache.nixos.org/) for many years.

> The cache allows running software going back as far as 2010, especially where sources cannot be obtained otherwise any more.

Reviewer: Are not in process to thin out the history of the binary cache?

Author: That was written before thinning out was on the table. But keeping FODs should still preserve this property.

## Functional configuration language

Which artifacts Nix produces is traditionally specified with _Nix expressions_.

A Nix expression describes everything that goes into a “derivation”:
the executable to run, input files and environment variables it can read, and command line arguments.

Nix tries very hard to ensure that **Nix expressions are deterministic**:
both evaluating the Nix expression and running an executable configured that way  should yield the same result every time.

Because **it’s a purely functional programming language**, it allows expressing highly complex compositions and their variants succinctly.
Since unique files have unique file system paths, variants won’t conflict with each other in the Nix store.

## Nixpkgs software distribution

[Nixpkgs](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs) has become [the largest, most up-to-date free software repository in the world](https://repology.org/repositories/graphs).
It holds tens of thousands of working packages **built from source** and **instantly available in binary form**.
It offers mechanisms to **compose or customise software** according to your needs.

## NixOS Linux distribution

> [NixOS](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/master/nixos) is a Linux distribution based on Nix and Nixpkgs, and allows you to **manage the entire system configuration declaratively** through the Nix language.

Reviewer: I got the intention intention that people don't immediately get what declarative means here. Maybe some variant of this makes it more clear. 
```suggestion
[NixOS](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/tree/master/nixos) is a Linux distribution based on Nix and Nixpkgs, and allows you to **manage the entire system configuration** through the Nix language in a central configuration file.
```
